# Classification-of-Monkey-pox
Research paper Link : https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10048840

DataSet Link : https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/dipuiucse/monkeypoxskinimagedataset

According to WHO, Skin Infection is very common but sometimes very serious and affects a large no population all over the world. Monkeypox, Chickenpox, and Measles are the major infectious disease that causes skin infection all over the world. It has been obverse that the cases of Monkeypox have drastically increased as an effect of Covid 19. This infection has spread easily and exponentially that cause serious health issues in many underdeveloped and developing countries. Some time it has been observed that people are not able to properly classify the type of skin infection well in time, which can be a main reason of serious health issues. So, it became important to propose an effective classification of Skin Disease. In this paper the authors have proposed an effective classification of Skin Disease using Deep Learning Techniques. This approach will help in classification of chicken pox, measles, and monkeypox through skin images. The authors have utilized Monkeypox Skin Images Dataset (MSID) dataset to apply the proposed approach. The Loss, Accuracy, Precision, Recall, AUC, and F1 Score parameters have been used to analyze the performance of proposed approaches. The best algorithms with maximum accuracy and other parameters are Xception, EfficientNetV2L, and EfficientNetV2M, and CNN, VGG16, and VGG19 are the least favored algorithms for this research
